There are people who believe
there is no need
for a religious organization.
They feel they have
their own personal relationship with God
and that is good enough.
They see no need to be associated
with a specific organization.
However, what does
God’s own inspired Word suggest?
That he would use an organization,
or channel,
through which spiritual food
would be dispensed
from his Word, the Bible.
For example,
1 Peter 2:17 says
to “have love
for the whole association of brothers.”
One dictionary definition for “association”
is “an organization of persons
having a common interest.”
We have a very interesting, insightful look
at the organization in the first century.
If we glance down through chapter 15
of the book of Acts,
we can gain some insight.
Verse 1 indicates there was
an issue that caused a disagreement
between some of the members
of the congregation.
Then verse 2 says:
“But after quite a bit
of dissension and disputing
“by Paul and Barnabas with them,
“it was arranged for Paul,
Barnabas, and some of the others
“to go up to the apostles
and elders in Jerusalem
regarding this issue.”
It sounds like an organization to me.
And after considerable discussion
and with the help of God’s holy spirit,
what transpired?
Verses 22 and 23 say:
“Then the apostles and the elders,
together with the whole congregation,
“decided to send chosen men
from among them to Antioch,
“along with Paul and Barnabas;
“they sent Judas
who was called Barsabbas and Silas,
“who were leading men
among the brothers.
They wrote this
and sent it through them.”
Then in verses 23-29
is the letter of direction
that was delivered to Antioch
and other congregations as well.
In fact, in verse 41,
it says Paul and Silas
“went through Syria and Cilicia,
strengthening the congregations.”
Chapter 16, verse 5 says:
“Then, indeed, the congregations
continued to be made firm in the faith
and to increase in number day by day.”
So it was not a matter
of isolated Christians sitting at home
claiming to have
a personal relationship with God.
No, the work was organized,
and congregations
kept being added “day by day.”
That is very similar to what we see
in Jehovah’s organization today.
In fact, the organization
of Jehovah’s Witnesses is patterned
after the first-century
Christian congregation
as set forth in the Scriptures.
I would like to remind
all of Jehovah’s Witnesses
—whether already baptized
or working toward baptism—
of this book,
Organized to Do Jehovah’s Will.
It provides an overall view
of how the Christian congregation
is organized
for getting God’s work done.
The book also offers counsel and direction
to help us maintain unity
with our brothers worldwide.
New ones need to become familiar
with the operation
of Jehovah’s organization
and learn how they can have a share
in the modern-day preaching work.
In fact,
when a Bible student progresses
and desires to join us in the ministry
as an unbaptized publisher,
the elders direct him
to make a study of this book,
including the “Questions for Those
Desiring to Get Baptized”
in the appendix.
Even for those of us
who have been baptized many years,
it may be good to schedule the reading
of one chapter of the book each week
during our personal study
or family worship.
It contains general information
concerning the duties
of elders and ministerial servants,
judicial procedures,
and various other features
of congregation organization.
I would like to take a few minutes
and review some of the information
in chapter 1 of the publication.
Though there are thousands of national
and international organizations
around the world,
they are organized
according to human viewpoints
and philosophies.
But our organization is different;
it is theocratic.
That means it is ruled by Jehovah
as Head over all.
Isaiah 33:22 says that he is our Judge,
Lawgiver, and King.
Many large organizations appoint
a chief executive officer, or CEO.
He is the executive
with the chief decision-making authority
in a business or corporation.
In a similar way,
Jehovah has appointed his Son, Jesus,
to be the one
with chief decision-making authority
over the congregation of God.
Ephesians 1:22
is speaking of Jehovah’s actions
in connection with Jesus.
It says:
“He also subjected all things under his feet
“and made him head over all things
with regard to the congregation.”
We see the structure
of the organization taking shape.
Jehovah is the Universal Sovereign,
the King,
directing the millions of angels
making up his heavenly organization.
But when it comes to directing
the visible earthly part
of God’s organization,
he has delegated
that responsibility to Jesus,
the head of the congregation of God.
Chapter 2 of the Organized book
explains this Scriptural position of Jesus.
And how does Jesus direct
the organization here on earth?
Matthew 24:45 says
that Jesus has appointed
a “faithful and discreet slave”
to serve
spiritual “food at the proper time.”
Today,
seven anointed men
make up the faithful slave,
and collectively,
they are known as the Governing Body.
And Jesus uses the holy spirit
to direct these men
in harmony with the Scriptures.
The Scriptural basis
for this layer of organization
is set forth in chapter 3 of the book.
Chapter 4 is entitled
“How the Congregation
Is Organized and Governed.”
The organizational structure
incorporates Branch Committees,
circuit overseers, elders,
and ministerial servants.
The subject index in the back of the book
can be useful
to quickly gain access to information
on various aspects of the organization.
Suppose you’re a young person,
maybe even
a relatively young married couple.
The circuit overseer is visiting,
and he asks you
what spiritual goals you have.
How would you answer?
Would your mind start racing,
trying to think
of various avenues of service available?
How about now,
before you are asked such a question,
you look in the subject index
under “Goals”?
There are 11 references
to paragraphs in the book on that subject.
After reading about all
of the possibilities
and different categories,
you would be
in a better position to plan your life
for a great future
in the earthly part
of Jehovah’s organization.
At this time,
I would like to draw your attention
to a very important factor
in a new ones making progress
and attaining spiritual stability.
On page 213 of the Organized book,
it discusses a person
interested in being baptized.
After the elders go over the questions
in part 3 of the book,
it says this:
“If he has not completed his study
of the Bible Teach and ‘God’s Love’ books,
the elders should make arrangements
for someone to help him do so.”
The two books
complement each other so well.
When someone becomes a dedicated
and baptized servant of Jehovah,
we want them to stay
closely attached to the organization.
Yet every year,
there are a number
who stop attending meetings
and become inactive.
At times,
it has been found
that they did not finish
studying the two books.
You see,
the Bible Teach book helps new ones
to have an accurate knowledge of the Bible,
and they often learn to love Jehovah.
The “Keep Yourselves in God’s Love” book
helps us to learn to apply the Bible
and live in harmony
with Jehovah’s standards.
Notice what Jesus told his faithful apostles
at John 15:10:
“If you observe my commandments,
you will remain in my love,
“just as I have observed
the commandments of the Father
and remain in his love.”
Did you notice
that Jesus remained in God’s love
by observing his Father’s commandments?
The same is true of us today.
To remain in God’s love,
we need to apply the truth
in our everyday life.
And what is the result
if we keep ourselves in God’s love?
It is so clearly stated
in Jude 21:
“In order to keep yourselves in God’s love,
“while you await the mercy
of our Lord Jesus Christ
with everlasting life in view.”
Staying in God’s love
results in everlasting life.
It is so important
to make sure our Bible students
complete a study of both books,
and that applies to our children too.
Sometimes as parents,
we can assume
that our children are developing
a trusting relationship with Jehovah
because they have been going
to meetings since they were very small.
A relationship with Jehovah
does not happen by means of osmosis.
A child does not simply absorb
and assimilate truth
and a love for God
just by being in the presence of others
who have a close relationship with Jehovah.
We very much appreciate
all of the videos we have,
including Become Jehovah’s Friend
and JW Broadcasting.
But new ones and young ones
need to be able to go
through the process of deep study
to get to the Bible’s truth
and get it etched into their minds
and lodged deep in their hearts.
Therefore,
if you parents realize
that you have not studied
both books with your young ones,
it would be good to see
that a schedule is established to do so.
The Governing Body gives all credit
for the success
of this organization to Jehovah
and the appointed head
of the congregation, Jesus Christ.
We are just imperfect men trying to follow
the lead of Christ and the holy spirit.
At 1 Corinthians 1:26,
Paul says:
“For you see his calling of you, brothers,
that there are not many wise
in a fleshly way.”
Verse 27 says:
“But God chose
the foolish things of the world
to put the wise men to shame.”
Then verse 30 says that Christ Jesus
“has become to us wisdom from God.”
That is where the direction and wisdom
of the organization come from,
not from mere man.
The words of Jehovah
to the prophet Zechariah fit today
when we see
the amazing advances in the organization.
Zechariah 4:6 says:
“‘Not by a military force, nor by power,
but by my spirit,’ says Jehovah of armies.”
While there are
some well-educated and prominent men
who have accepted the truth
and are now our fellow brothers,
the majority in the organization
come from a more humble background.
For example,
among the first
of Jehovah’s modern-day servants
to introduce the Kingdom message
to people in Denmark
was a shoemaker.
In Switzerland and France,
it was a gardener.
In many parts of Africa,
the message was carried
by itinerant workers.
In Brazil, sailors had a share.
Quite a few of the Polish Witnesses
in northern France
were coal miners.
Jehovah and Jesus use all of us
to get a remarkable work accomplished.
We are proud to be a part
of this spirit-directed organization.
As one older circuit overseer
was heard to say,
“This is the best imperfect organization
on earth!”
There are no perfect organizations on earth.
However, this is the best of them all.
And we appreciate
the contribution all of you make
to the success
of the preaching work worldwide.